The President:
Over the past couple weeks I've
been talking with folks across
the country about how we're
going to rebuild an economy
where if you work hard, you
and your family can get ahead.
And right now, there's a big
debate going on in Washington
over two fundamentally different
paths we can take as a country
to do that.
One path -- pushed by
Republicans in Congress and
their nominee for President --
says that the best way to create
prosperity is to let it
trickle down from the top.
They believe that if we spend
trillions more on tax cuts for
the wealthy, it'll
somehow create jobs --
even if we have to pay for it by
gutting education and training
and by raising
middle-class taxes.
I think they're wrong.
We already tried it that way
for most of the last decade,
and it didn't work.
We're still paying for trillions
of dollars in tax cuts that
benefited the wealthiest
Americans more than anyone else;
tax cuts that didn't lead to the
rise in wages and middle class
jobs that we were promised; and
that helped take us from record
surpluses to record deficits.
The last thing we need right
now is more top-down economics.
What we need are policies that
will grow and strengthen the
middle class; that
will help create jobs,
make education and
training more affordable,
and encourage businesses to
start up and stay right here in
the United States.
Soon, we'll face a
choice between these two
different approaches.
On January 1st, taxes are set
to go up for tens of millions
of Americans.
I think that would be a
huge financial hit for
middle-class families.
That's why I've cut middle-class
taxes every year that I've been
President -- by $3,600
for the typical family.
And that's why, this week,
I called on Congress to
immediately stop the January
1st tax hike from hitting any
American on the first
$250,000 of their income.
Under my plan, 98% of American
families won't see their income
taxes go up at all.
But the other 2% of Americans
will have to pay a little more
on taxes on anything
they make over $250,000.
In other words, the wealthiest
few Americans will go back to
the income tax rates they were
paying under Bill Clinton.
And if you remember, that was
when our economy created nearly
23 million new jobs, the biggest
budget surplus in history,
and millionaires were
doing pretty well to boot.
The folks in Congress and on the
campaign trail who oppose this
plan warn that it would somehow
hurt small businesses and
job creators.
Well, they're completely
ignoring the facts.
Under my plan, 97% of small
business owners would avoid
getting hit with any
income tax hike whatsoever.
In fact, I've cut taxes for
small businesses eighteen times
since I've been President.
And just this week, I ordered a
series of new steps to help our
small businesses grow and hire.
So the only place Republicans
and I disagree is whether we
keep giving tax cuts to the
wealthiest 2% of Americans.
Republicans in Washington
want more of those tax cuts.
With the deficit we have, I
don't think we can afford them.
But even if we disagree on the
tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans, we all agree that no
American should pay more taxes
on the first $250,000
of their income.
So let's at least agree to
do what we all agree on.
That's what compromise
is all about.
Let's not hold the vast majority
of Americans and our entire
economy hostage while we debate
the merits of another tax cut
for the wealthy.
Let's skip the
unnecessary drama,
the needless delays and all the
partisan posturing and let's
just do the right thing
for the people who sent us
here to serve.
And I'm going to keep fighting
to make sure we rebuild an
economy that rewards work,
grows the middle class,
and gives new opportunity to
those trying to earn their way
into the middle class.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.